Hey guys welcome back.
This lecture we're going to do is we're to talk about paid shout out specifically.
Now we talked about them before.
You probably have a rough idea of what they are.
But I feel like we just didn't give enough attention to it.
And there are some specific things of page outs that are worth addressing and a separate lecture.
So page outs if you're not familiar yet skipped a lecture or something.
Their shout outs where you just pay for them.
OK.
Some situations call for paid shout outs only and that's usually when your account only has X amount
of followers and you're trying to get a shout out from someone who has ten times as many.
If that's the case they're just going ask you to pay for one.
Also I mean there's a lot of accounts out there that are designed to make money through paid shout outs.
So those ones sometimes will ask for money no matter what.
Now whether you want to do paid channels is really up to you and your budget.
Can they be worth it.
Sure.
I mean it just depends what worth it means to you.
If you don't want to spend any money growing your account you won't do it entirely organically.
And the answer is no but if you ok spending a little bit of money to get a boost every now and then
while Sure I personally try to avoid them just because.
Sure.
A shout for shout with the real account takes a little bit more work but it doesn't.
It's nothing.
Nothing wrong with that.
I take someone else's post I pick it because I know my audience likes it.
And they do the same thing and I get exposure for it.
So it's a little more authentic.
The only time I ever think about paid is kind of at the very beginning when I just don't have enough
followers to justify doing Cher for shares with anyone.
If that's the case and yeah this can definitely get you out of a rut.
So how do you exactly do you find them and how do you qualify.
Which ones are worth it.
Well let's first talk about how you find them where you find them pretty much the same way we talked
about before finding share for shares.
You look see if they have e-mail address if they know that you look to see if they post other people's
stuff then you see if they're tagging people in their captions then you just contact in the same way.
And if they want page they'll just say page.
Sometimes it's just another item on the menu.
Sometimes they'll say you Sheriff show or you can pay for it.
And then sometimes that's all they want to offer.
So through the process of looking for organic shout outs you'll find a lot of these so you'll have the
opportunity to use them well outside of that.
So how do you exactly do you find more of them.
Well you probably have to use in an exchange.
So we'll look at three of the biggest ones so they're just basically Web sites where people who want
to monetize their accounts go on and give prices for shots.
Pretty straightforward.
I mean almost every single social media platform out there has these.
Just keep in mind that the people that made these accounts typically are not.
I mean they're not the best accounts out there to work with because they made them solely for the purpose
of monetizing.
Just remember that technology account we refer to several times.
That's all they do.
All they do is page shout out so you could tell because all of their original content never changes.
They just post the same paid stuff over and over deleting it deleting it deleting it so every time you
get the profile it looks the exact same.
They're just trying to make money.
OK so first of all look at those buy sell shout outs.
Now this place has a lot of stuff that you can use.
They try to sell your own software.
They have a whole bunch of some element analytics tools and some stuff that's a little black hat do
you focus on their shout outs.
You know look at those disco shout outs over here and we can start browsing now you can look at all
of them if you want to.
And if you want to start selling your own well there's that option too.
So they'll show you some of their more impressive ones usually and you can kind of just tell immediately
what they're going for.
A lot of fitness accounts a lot of motivational quote ones.
A lot of you know like fuzzy dogs and fuzzy cats kind of ones.
So specifically I'm in technology so let's just say I go to science and technology let's see if there's
actually any that might work.
OK so some of done nothing to do with with science and technology at all like what does this matter.
Permanent promotion.
Don't you know what that is but down here we have a philosophy of science.
OK.
Ranges from $10 to $40 and then we have shout out brilliant invention 60 to 100.
Now I might actually be interested in this one because I'm doing innovations like.
And most of them are new product inventions so so is interested in new cool inventions might be interested
in what I'm doing as well.
Sounds pretty easy.
So you can see right here the way these usually work is you literally just give them your and your user
name you give them the caption They don't even care.
And then you give them your e-mail address and the image and then you get to pick.
So this one specifically I could do a three hour future for 60 bucks 24 hour feature for 90 and then
a permanent post for two hundred.
Now the way that I would qualify this is the same way that we did it before.
I would just go and do some basic analytic searches on them.
So if I wanted to look at brilliant innovations.
OK here we go.
They have a rank of B.
Not bad but I can see here that they're losing followers.
Now that typically means that they're no longer posting organic content that means they're just doing
ads because usually you do ads they just don't work as well with your audience and people slowly start
to kind of leave.
But you can also tell they have so many followers to begin with that it's going to be a while soon to
be at least another year before they have to start pumping it back up again.
So that's really all we can pull from here be it kind of depends.
I think they're waiting.
They're ranking a lot by how many followers they're losing.
Now we could though use the auditor for Instagram.
This is much better.
And right here it's a bit of a shocker right.
So 32 out of 100.
That's quite bad.
OK.
So very low activity no suspicious likes or comments fallers numbers seem to be artificially increased.
So they're not buying Lankes they're not buying comments that they just incredibly low engagement.
And it might be that some of their followers are fake.
Now we see up here they post nine or three times but this or that's engagement rate.
Now that's point 3 1 percent.
That's awful.
So if I go down to their comparison that poor I mean it's could be a lot worse.
But wow.
I mean the baseline for them is supposedly 1.5 5.
You can see these they really round out the bottom of the account.
Now of those point three one percent we see for the most part they're real people.
OK.
They're just not getting a lot per how many people they have falling.
And that's probably because remember we looked at this they haven't been posting real stuff in a while.
So if you're still engaging at this point it's kind of ridiculous.
You'll just probably engage with anything and there probably.
Well I'd say a lot of them are bots but this one says that probably 132 percent of that activity looks
like it's from a bot.
Then we can look down here.
So I really only want to go after English speaking people because my stuff is all in English would be
really hard to understand if you don't speak English.
So 75 percent that's decent but still I mean you have to discount them 25 percent almost immediately
like and comment ratio doesn't really matter.
That usually is sometimes an indicator that people are cheating but that's about it.
So it's the reachability.
So this basically means that a lot of people following them just follow.
Way too many people so that also could partially explain their low engagement rate.
Here we see a lot are in India a lot are in the U.S. kind of same thing real people really only at 50
percent.
So then the question just becomes is that worth it.
I mean if you only have point three one percent engagement OK that means that not very many people are
actually going to engage with it.
Now you can just do the math on this right.
Point three of a percent.
And there's ninety nine hundred fifty eight thousand.
So we just said 958 thousand times zero point three percent.
And this would be point 3 of a percent that each post gets about 3000 engagements.
Now those could be spread.
You get commenters and post that's why you'd want to go look at the ratio of comments to post.
So if I did that you could guess out of 3000 people I might get say five hundred new followers maybe.
OK.
So out of 500 new followers.
Is that worth $90.
You can just do the calculation right there.
You say you're paying 90 by 500 so maybe 18 cents what you can do when you're researching these as you
can compile these into an Excel sheet and you can just kind of make a baseline guess.
And I first like to reduce it down to the price per follower.
I would expect because that kind of levels it out.
I'm more interested in getting the best bang for my buck Nessus not necessarily getting the most followers
per time I do this.
So what you would definitely want to do is just try to standardize everything let's say had BERLIJN
interventions into other accounts.
What I'd want to do is just take their total number of people right then divide and then times it by
their engagement rate then I get that expected amount and then I take it by a standardized amount.
So I'd say I'm going to guess 25 percent of the people who engage will follow me right or go to my profile
and then follow me.
So multiply that against each one and that's how you can figure out what is probably the best deal.
But again if you have the budget sometimes it just doesn't matter.
How quickly we'll look at two other places.
One is called Jump thaim dot com.
And you know they're kind of the same thing.
They don't have as many people but you can also do some targeting where specifically if you only want
to count in a certain area or a local business that can be pretty useful.
You can pick the language and stuff like that because are ones that give you a lot of junk sometimes.
Let's say I wanted to do technology Well OK I already selected technology.
I said that I want a specific number of followers I could do that.
This is pretty useful actually mostly active audience so if I know my audience is mostly active say
and like the evening OK I don't want someone who gets all of their likes from say a morning group.
Now the reason is because I want to concentrate my engagement in my posts.
I have my likes all spread out across my day.
That's not as useful as if I had them all at the same time that I post.
Ok now it's a little confusing because you could ask what time zone but you kind of just have to think
of it just as generic like.
Assume that this is all based on US West Coast or something like that.
Look at yours and then just base it off that relatively So if your evening then just base it off of
that it might be the case that you're in the US and you have a large European audience than it might
be the case that you have a nighttime audience.
OK so if I wanted to update my view and show me what their technology posts look like and I can kind
of see if there's anything that matches what I would like so this is probably the only one technology
spot.
And then what I would do is I would do the same thing.
I would go and check them out.
You know from $10.
Kind of just depends what they want.
OK so here pretty straightforward it's nice We'll tell you the engagement rate up front.
Now one percent is three times better than brilliant inventions.
Sometimes these platforms don't calculate the engagement rate entirely correctly so before you spend
a lot of money make sure that you run it independently on the auditor and then the last one is just
shout cart.
Same kind of thing here.
I think they're probably the largest because they do other systems as well and they're kind of useful
because they give you things like this.
Look over here it can turn off Twitter and I can search for specifically.
I want someone who gives me a shout out but also lets me change their bio link for a certain amount
of time so that actually can actually work pretty well.
One of the things you want to try out and see how it goes.
But I could go here and say tack and then right here we could say OK tech inventions they've 104 for
15 bucks now and need to see what their score is and all their brand new.
So that's a bit of a risk.
So I'd probably have to manually do the calculation but it's still check them out to see what they are.
So but here I can have two hour shout out and I can change their bio link directly to at my account
and I can do that for two hours for 17 bucks.
Now whether or not that works kind of just depends on the account and how you do it.
But it's worth checking it out.
I don't know exactly how you give a permanent shout out plus a bioweapon that doesn't really make any
sense because when it was reselling anything else.
But again check it out and tell me how it works.
All right hopefully that gives you a bit of an idea of what the rough cost scale is for paid shout outs
why you might use them and then how to calculate.
Really the only metric that matters in the end of the day is how much you pay per expected follower.
And later on in the follow longs I'll actually test some of these out just so you guys can see it or
buy it.
I'll go through it and then we'll see the traffic spike and see if it matches what I've expected before.
And actually interesting because then I can use a real baseline I can try it with one of these and then
get a percentage of how many people actually end up following me based on who engage with the posts
that will actually help me a lot in the long term.
All right guys.
That being said.
See you in the next lecture.